.TH CLIPMENU.CONF 5
.SH NAME
clipmenu.conf \- configuration file for clipmenu applications
.SH DESCRIPTION
clipmenu.conf defines the runtime settings for clipmenu applications (including
clipmenu itself, clipmenud, clipctl, clipdel, and clipserve).
.SH FORMAT
Each non-comment line in clipmenu.conf consists of a key followed by one or
more whitespace-separated values. Blank lines and lines starting with '#' are
ignored.
.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS
.TP
.B max_clips
Specifies the maximum number of clipboard entries to retain in the clip store.
Default: 1000.
.TP
.B max_clips_batch
Provides a buffer above max_clips; when the number of entries exceeds
(max_clips + max_clips_batch), the clip store is trimmed back to max_clips
entries. Default: 100.
.TP
.B oneshot
If set to 1, clipmenud processes clipboard selections only once before exiting.
Default: 0.
.TP
.B own_clipboard
Determines whether clipmenud should claim ownership of the X11 clipboard. Works
together with own_selections. Default: 0.
.TP
.B own_selections
Specifies which X11 selections (e.g., "clipboard" or "primary") clipmenud
should actively own. Default: "clipboard".
.TP
.B selections
Lists the X11 selections to monitor for changes. Valid values include
"clipboard", "primary", and "secondary". Default: "clipboard primary".
.TP
.B ignore_window
Defines a regular expression matching window titles to exclude from clipboard
monitoring. Unset by default.
.TP
.B launcher
Specifies the launcher command to use with clipmenu. Alternative choices
include rofi's dmenu mode or a custom command. Default: "dmenu".
.TP
.B launcher_pass_dmenu_args
When enabled, extra command-line arguments passed to clipmenu are forwarded to
the launcher. Default: 1.
.TP
.B cm_dir
Overrides the default directory for the clip store. This is by default at a
subdirectory inside XDG_RUNTIME_DIR, TMPDIR, or if both are unset, inside /tmp.
.SH FILE LOCATION
Typically, clipmenu.conf is located at
.BR ~/.config/clipmenu/clipmenu.conf
.
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR clipctl (1),
.BR clipdel (1),
.BR clipmenu (1),
.BR clipmenud (1),
.SH AUTHOR
Chris Down
.MT chris@chrisdown.name
.ME
.SH REPORTING BUGS
Please send bug reports to
.UR https://github.com/cdown/clipmenu/issues
.UE .
